I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
this week. Oh my god, they cancelled
Jimmy
comedy.
This in a pickle right now. It's a
pickle that's as old as comedy itself. I
mean, how do you make fun of, say, a
king who could then cut off your head?
It used to be that in a monarchy, there
was one exception made for the jester.
No exception seems to exist right now,
but I had been thinking about this
before ABC via Disney briefly
slashtemporarily suspended production on
the Jimmy Kimmel show. He's back now.
But before that, Steven Colbear's show
was cancelled and is still canled by
CBS.
>> We'll be ending the late show in May.
>> You can come to your own conclusions
about why Steven Colbear lost his show.
But in comedy, writ large right now,
doing the job just seems like it can
cost you your job. With one notable
exception, the jesters over at South
Park.
>> Where are you going?
>> It's okay, Sharon. I'm just going to do
some ketamine and [__] around with the
government a little. See you.
>> This latest season, it's the 27th and it
kicked off with the show's creators Trey
Parker and Matt Stone practically
begging for the guillotine. The very
first episode gave us a president with a
tiny penis and the town of South Park
itself facing a lawsuit from this
fictional Trump. This was essentially
hours after it was announced that Trey
Parker and Matt Stone had closed a $ 1.5
billion billion billion dollar deal with
Paramount. Too late y'all. That check I
think it cleared. Now the show's midway
through its current season. Episode 5
came out last night. And if anything,
the jokes, they've only gotten more
withering. Nobody else with ratings even
half this good is getting away with
mocking the administration. Not like
this. Now, who else is even trying?
Which begs this question, how is this
show still on TV? That's what I'm asking
my pal Wyatt Snack. Wyatt's a writer,
actor, and comedian who's worked as I
don't know, I would say the levelheaded
correspondent on the Daily Show and was
the host of the wonderful HBO show Wyatt
Saxs Problem Areas. He's also done some
work on South Park. Okay, ready,
>> Rob?
>> All right, Wyatt.
>> Yes,
>> behave.
>> All right,
>> welcome to Cannonball, Wyatt.
>> Thanks for having me. Okay. So, I'm
gonna I'm gonna start by explaining to
you how this show came into my life. I
was in college and there was some guy
standing around a computer watching
something and cracking up. And I was
like, "Hey, what are you guys doing?
This is what's so funny." And somebody
made room for me to watch. And it was
what I call the South Park Christmas
special or Jesus versus Santa Claus.
Behold my glory.
>> Holy [__] it's Jesus. What are you
doing in that part, Jesus?
>> And I don't think I laughed.
I think I was more appalled than I was
amused.
And I think what appalled me about it
and what I was sort of mystified by what
they found funny was the blasphemy of
it.
>> Dude, this is pretty [__] up right
here. the kind of indiscriminate
lack of of um sympathy for any
particular party.
We had a stupid shark.
>> Yeah, Hanukkah sucks.
>> And I think I felt like some position
that I understood about myself, whatever
values I had were being challenged in
some way. Even though I didn't know
>> by this show or by your friends. Well,
by my friends watching the show, my
friends v via the show,
>> right?
>> And I don't know, it was kind of
destabilizing. And I remember being kind
of afraid of it.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm curious, what were Wesley's values?
>> Just be nice to people. Oh,
>> just be I mean, and it's like it's funny
why because I grew up watching the
meanest comedians, right? Like I watched
Andrew Dice Clay. I watched Sam
Kenisonson. I I've seen Eddie Murphy's
Raw 7,000 times. Um, but there was
something about the the appropriation of
this sort of juvenilia, this alleged
child's format.
>> Yeah.
>> That also contributed to my I guess I
was taking the bait.
>> How did it come into your life? Do you
remember the first time you saw it?
>> I feel like it came out. You said 97 was
the first
>> the show. The first season of the show
of the show was 1997. So, I was in
college and I enjoyed it. Yeah, I
enjoyed South Park. I didn't watch it
all the time. I remember when I was in
like when I was in middle school, I took
animation classes at a local community
college.
>> Oh, did you?
>> I did. And that was what we did. We did
that construction paper.
>> Okay.
>> Thing. And I remember style-wise, I
appreciated the technical thing of what
they were doing, but
>> I have always been fascinated by
animation. And so it wasn't Chuck Jones
or Tex Avery or anything like that.
>> So you had taste.
>> I was a I was an animation snob as a
child.
>> I was a child animation snob.
>> So I mean what did you think when you
first started watching it? Does does
what I'm saying to you make sense about
>> kind of being uncomfortable.
>> It does. But I think I also came at it
from a different place where especially
once I graduated college, I was then
living in Los Angeles.
And at that point in time in comedy and
in all the comedy spaces I was in,
one of the big things was ironic racism,
ironic sexism, ironic homophobia.
And I feel like South Park was doing
that on television. And in some ways, it
didn't feel that different than the
ecosystem I was in where, you know,
there were a lot of white comedians who
felt very comfortable saying the N word.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And so, you know, I like I came up in a
time where everybody had a rape joke. It
was
>> that was part of I mean, again, as a
comedy watcher, like Yes. Yeah. But what
felt unique and what felt kind of
fascinating about what they were doing
was that they were doing it on
television. And especially when I think
about something like the Scientology
episode,
>> dummy brainwashed alien souls, ematan
levels. That was one of those episodes
where in LA in hushed rooms, everyone
had a story of an awkward runin with a
Scientologist. This is a scam on a
global scale. Do you [__] get me now?
>> Yeah.
>> And so I I think that or even the Mormon
episode.
>> Wait, Mormons actually know this story
and they still believe Joseph Smith was
a prophet?
>> Well, sure. The story proves it, doesn't
it? No, it proves he did make it all up.
Are you blind?
>> They were things that people around me
were talking about or that, you know, we
were all talking about, but no one no
one was talking about it on television.
And so there was a sort of
courageousness of okay, you can people
will do this stuff on stage, but they're
doing it on television and potentially
running the risk of losing advertisers
or something.
>> They are saying the thing that you and I
would say over brunch,
>> right?
>> But they're putting it on Comedy
Central. And at the time, you know,
we're talking about three million people
watching this every week.
>> Yeah.
>> Sometimes more than that. And it what
was bracing about it was that you were
getting
what felt to me to be unfiltered
riffing. It's kind of rumor oriented,
but it here it is being kind of
crystallized in this really what I would
say is almost primitive
uh animation format.
>> Yeah. But I would say with some of the
stuff there was a level of research. I
think that's what also seemed
fascinating about what they were doing.
And it did feel like there was some
aspect of maybe not the level of
journalistic rigor that that uh a
reporter has, but there was okay, you
know, even just flashing a Chiron, like
in the Scientology episode, they're
putting up Chirons that say this is
straight from this text. This is what
these people believe.
the frozen alien bodies were loaded onto
Zenu's galactic cruisers.
>> And so that to me felt
uh it felt different in this way of
you're not just using conjecture here.
You actually you're doing a
wellressearched prank on some level.
>> Yeah. And so despite how not good I
frequently felt
at the end of some of these episodes, I
learned to appreciate um and discover
and experience delight in the the kind
of secret seriousness with which they
were undertaking these episodes.
>> And I I loved that.
>> Right.
>> I had a moment where I kind of fell in
love with this show as a movie.
And it was around like was it 1999 South
Park bigger longer and uncut comes out.
I go and I see it and I I didn't know
what I was getting myself into. I
thought you know I'm watching South Park
the show but a movie but the movie
turned out to be a musical. There's a
bunch of birds in the sky.
>> And I think like watching that I was
just like, okay, these guys um Trey
Parker and Matt Stone are not just
two young [__] who just enjoy like
jumping on people's nerves. They're
artists.
>> Yeah. And the challenge for them, and
this is the rigor at work in this movie,
um, that's, you know, evident in the
show, but to to take that and stretch it
to like a 90-minute format that is
beholden to the rules of a genre, it
just kind of blew my mind.
[Music]
>> Each song works as as a song. It's
melodic. It's funny. it's following some
sort of musical traditional format. And
I don't know, the thing that was scaring
me about it was less frightening because
it was speaking speaking a language that
I as a movie go understood.
>> Yeah.
>> Um that I don't know just deepened my
relationship with the show.
>> Can I have five tickets to tears and
fill the asses of fire, please?
>> No. Well, and I think that artistry
thing that you're talking about,
if you even just watching the show, that
musical artistry comes through in so
many different episodes.
>> I could see it subsequently. Yes.
>> Like even again thinking about that that
Mormon episode, they're doing a musical
about Joseph Smith and they start off
and they they're singing about him and
then they go dum dum dum dum dum.
>> Joseph Smith was called a prophet. Dum
dum dum dum dum.
>> And it just sounds like the dum dum dums
that people do in a song.
>> But over time, the dum dum dum now
starts to sound dumb dumb dumb.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. and then gets to a point
where they talk about one person being
skeptical of Joseph Smith and in that
coral moment they go smart smart
>> smart smart smart smart and it was a
20inut buildup to that and
>> this is the rigor at work in in in their
structural process
>> and and in a similar way I think in the
movie it felt like oh the movie is
taking all of the criticism that they
and the show have received
and now putting this into this musical
thing where Terrence and Philip kind of
become Matt and Trey,
>> right?
>> Dude, that movie was [__] sweet. Bad
[__] ass it was. [__] dude. I want
to be just like Terrence and Philip.
>> Hey, wait a minute. Where's your
guardian? Terrence and Philip being the
fictional characters of this children
show,
>> right? That it's Yeah. Terrence and
Philip they
>> that all the kids in South Park watch.
>> Yeah. And they made a movie called Asses
of Fire and all the kids go and then
they learn all of these horrible curse
words.
>> We must stop dirty language from getting
to our children's ears. We must go fight
the source of it. And then the adults
get mad and they want to both kill
Terrence and Philip and invade Canada.
>> So that then leads to one of the great
musical numbers. By the way, Wyatt, I
don't think you know this about me, but
I think this movie is in addition to
being a great movie, I think it's one of
the great movie musicals, period. Um,
I'd put it in like at least the top 10.
>> Okay. I was going to say, is it your top
three? I would go higher. I might even
top five. I mean, that's
>> top three. Top five is higher than top
three.
>> I was starting at 10,
>> but then I said top three. And what's
clear is you weren't listening to me.
>> I I am listening. I hit me. You all have
seen this. I've been assaulted.
>> This is evidence.
>> I would get to I would say top five. I
would say I would not be afraid to put
this movie in my top five of of the
great great American musicals. What else
is what else is in your top five?
>> I mean, you know,
>> and it does you don't have to do all the
other four, but
>> I mean, I don't know. Westside Story.
Okay.
>> It's not hard. That's that's an easy
one.
>> Okay. Um, but wait, I want to stay in
the world of this movie for a second
because one of the chief scandals in in
the movie in South Park, Bigger, Longer,
and Uncut is the idea that Satan
>> Satan, you know, from the from the from
the Bible
>> is uh
>> I was thinking of a different Satan, but
Okay, now now I know which one you're
talking about. Yep. Okay.
>> Is is a gay man in a frustrating
relationship with Saddam Hussein? Well,
sometimes I think you don't have any
respect for me.
>> Come here, guy.
Who's my cream puff?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Satan is a is a big muscle man who's got
like even bigger feelings.
>> Yeah, he hits the gym.
>> Um, and
>> I'm assuming it's all not it's not all
natural. I'm assuming he's using he's
using some supplements.
>> Is Is Satan on creatine? Is that what
you're saying? Little HGH,
>> testosterone. No, I mean it's Look, I'm
just saying I don't know if he's getting
the same supplements that RFK is
getting, but they they're both on tea.
>> And this is where a disclaimer, whites
views do not represent.
>> Yes, we'll stamp that ASAP. But I
remember at the time what I loved about
this movie personally was that it was
one of those occasions where I was
figuring out how to be a critic. And you
will hate to hear this, but like what I
really loved doing was trying to figure
out how jokes worked and like why what
was making me laugh was was was funny.
>> I don't hate that.
>> Okay. Cuz some comedians, you know, like
unpacking a joke, this not really how it
works. But I liked doing it. Yeah.
>> Because I wanted to know what exactly I
did or did not find funny. And the thing
that worked so beautifully to me about
the Satan character is everybody's
upset.
>> Yeah.
>> Glad's upset. The, you know,
conservative Christians are upset at the
same thing,
>> right? Yes.
>> Um
>> and it becomes a how you look at it
because there's a version of it where
Yeah. You can have someone who looks at
it and says, "Oh, no. That is just
purely taking a piss out of out of
conservative Christians and their idea
that all gay people are going to burn in
hell, so obviously then Satan is going
to be the biggest gayest character you
can find." Or you can say, "Well, wait a
minute though. There aren't a lot of
representations of gay people on
television, and so the idea that you're
making Satan gay feels offensive." And
>> we haven't gotten to make Satan gay yet.
We need to make regular people gay
before we get to Satan. Y'all didn't
skip a lot of steps. South Park.
>> And then I don't know if you know this
about me, but I went on Jean Cisco dies
in 1999 and Roger Eert wanted, you know,
a rotisserie of people to come on and
like fill Jean's slot. um while Roger
figured out whether he wanted to I mean
Jean couldn't be replaced but whether he
wanted to do the show with another
person and I was one of the guest hosts
on the show and know that
>> one of my movies was South Park bigger
longer and uncut a title that could
easily refer to the bris that never
happened to South Parker Kyle Bravoski
or the fact that for me anyway this film
is the best way to experience Trey
Parker and Matt Stone's controversial
Comedy Central cartoon series
>> and I didn't know when I got my list of
movies. You don't know what Roger is
going to think, you know? I mean, these
Gene and Roger were professionals. They
would do the show. They almost never
knew what the other one was going to
think or know about the movie before
they recorded the episodes. That's where
all the good tension was.
>> Yeah.
>> And I was convinced he was going to like
it.
>> Yeah. I thought he was going to think
this was the most
subversively funny works of of humanity
and and satire that he'd ever seen.
>> It has some laughs in it. And it is
slashingly fearless satire. That's true.
But it's also so mean.
>> And he hated it.
>> But so mean-spirited and so negative.
And you feel as you sit in the audience,
even when you're laughing, you're not
proud of what you're laughing at.
>> He really didn't like it.
>> Yeah.
>> And I remember sitting there thinking,
"Oh my god, one of my heroes is sitting
across from me,
>> not liking a movie that I'm about to
tell him I loved."
>> It put itself right in the middle of
this debate about at this particular
moment. It's really timely about the
First Amendment and and the media and
culture's ability to sort of But I
really got off on
loving this movie as much as I did.
Being like a cool little [__] I
mean, I didn't love that Roger Eert was
offended by this movie.
>> Yeah.
>> It it it then like triggered my fear,
but like I kind of understood that this
critical institution
was worried about the effects of this
movie on young people. That was his big
fear. Y
>> was that young people were going to see
this film
>> and just perform it, right? Like it was
going to permit young people to act this
way,
>> right?
>> Um and I think that his criticism of the
movie stands in for the criticism of the
show at large, right? Which is that like
he didn't trust the audience
>> and in a weird way me.
>> Well, cuz I was curious if he ever if he
saw where you were coming from at any
point. No, he did not. Like he was
really worried about about like the
cesspool
>> of like human empathy.
>> Sure.
>> I think he didn't see what we're talking
about with Satan and Saddam Hussein and
the reaction to the the Satan character
that was not he was really really
concerned about the influence this movie
was going to have
>> on people.
>> But what about all the racial slurs?
What about all the Jewish and black? the
context, but it's in the context of this
farce in which emerald in which even we
can sit here, we can sit here
intellectually and talk about how it's
in the context of a farce, but millions
of people who go to the movies just
learn that it's okay to make fun of
Jews.
>> I feel like that's a little bit of the
sort of the Mr. Rogers thoughts on
television where television has the
power to inform and and as as well as
entertain.
It feels weird to say, well,
specifically these two guys who were
never doing that, they should start
doing that now.
>> I remember thinking like, why is that
their job?
>> But I think it should be somebody's job.
It's just maybe not in the same way that
I think, you know, I would not expect
McDonald's to make steak fre. And I
would not ask McDonald's to make steak
freak freak
fre.
>> It's just not McDonald's. But I mean I I
feel like there was a generational
tension between me and you know one of
my heroes and this movie he's worried
that
it doesn't respect the impressionability
of the young people who'd be going to
see it. And I think the thing that is
sort of powerful about the South Park
experience is that I kind of like being
offended.
>> Sure. Yeah. Yeah. I get that. Yeah. I
mean again I think we you know
when you think about that time it was
obviously a time where it was a bubble
people both wanted to offend and wanted
to be offended.
>> Mhm. I feel like the the question to ask
though with respect to this relationship
between wanting
or
tolerating being offended. It kind of
makes me wonder whether or not this show
has ever offended you, whether South
Park has offended you.
>> Off the top of my head, I don't I don't
know if there's an episode that I could
point to. I feel like I remember
when I'd learned about the introduction
of certain characters
kind of cringing a little bit
>> and wondering, oh, you're making fun of
a character with disabilities or the
introduction of Token or something like
that. And then I think by the time I
even did engage with those characters or
the show at that point, those characters
had become so ingrained in the show and
they were at that point humanized in a
way where I don't even I I didn't see
their introduction, but now they've
become characters that people are like
they're defensive of these characters.
They're like, "We love these
characters." So, if that if that makes
sense.
>> Yeah. I think like Token is a great
example of a joke that you kind of need
to be
watching the show to get.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, Chef, same thing. The thing that
they're commenting on is the absence of
black people in the world of what I
would describe as like white cultural
properties.
>> Yes. Um, and what would it mean in this
in this white town and then, you know,
therefore this white show?
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> to have a black person in it, like what
would their job be?
>> Right.
>> How would they function in a in a school
environment?
>> Yeah. Um what are the jokes that we can
tell about this person
um
that they that the that the character
itself or you know in this in the show
in this show like himself can also get
in on. I mean I guess that is the line
right like is the thing that is
bothering me is the joke cheap or is it
trying to get somewhere? Then I'm asking
like well what is what is being
impersonated here? Is it the fact of the
of the identity or the idea of what the
identity represents?
>> Right.
>> Um
>> well that goes back to Satan and it goes
back to that idea of
>> are they mocking Satan for being gay or
>> are they mocking people who believe if
you're gay you go to hell.
>> Right. But did you I mean it just seemed
to me like the thing that that that
South Park could frequently hide behind
is we go after everybody,
>> right?
>> Like there's no particular person or
group that we're interested in
protecting. Um we'll laugh at anybody,
right?
>> We'll satarize anybody.
>> Did that hold water with you?
>> Um I don't know that I saw it that way.
I think I maybe saw it more from the
standpoint of
they had an institution supporting them
in that
>> meaning like Viacom/Cdentral.
>> Yeah. And so it's not simply that
they're getting away with something.
It's that they have a network behind
them.
>> This is really smart because they've
been given a platform. Mhm.
>> They've been given a platform at what is
now one of the like biggest media
conglomerates in the country. Comedy
Central, Viacom,
Paramount, Sky Dance.
>> Yeah. Well, that's a gonna make for a
really long business card.
>> I think they're just going to call it
Sky Dance now, which is crazy. But
they've got a deal worth more than a
billion dollars to make this show. Um,
and I think that they are now uniquely
positioned to take that platform to
practice their, you know, satire for all
or against all comedy. And it feels
meaningful that the show seems to
be newly interesting to people as it
takes on the second Trump
administration. Matt Stone and Trey
Barker, they have achieved and built for
themselves, you know, a mighty
uh edifice from within which they can
practice all kinds of jokes and take aim
at all kinds of people and problems and
and trends. Um, but this season is the
one.
I don't know. It just seems like all of
it. It could only have been
they have gathered all of their
resources essentially. Um, there's a
kind of wisdom at work here. You know,
they've they've got now this billion
dollar deal um to keep making the show.
They have chosen to focus almost
exclusively
on the Trump administration and the ways
in which the administration is
making life difficult for all kinds of
Americans. But with South Park basically
as the standin for America.
>> Yep.
And I have found these episodes to be
simultaneously very funny, scathing, and
on at least two occasions, I was moved
uh by some things that happened that are
also funny, but when you sort of sit
down to think about what's really
happening here, it's kind of touching.
I'm just curious about um how those how
they're striking you so far.
I mean on one level it strikes me as
the thing that they've always been
doing. I I think there is this, you
know, this sort of idea in comedy of
speaking truth to power. And, you know,
I think Maron in Mark Maron in his most
recent stand-up special uh sort of makes
a funny point that so many of the
comedians turn podcasters these days are
speaking power to truth.
And
that that has never felt like that was
the intention in Matt and Trey's work.
>> No,
>> it's a it was a good line by it was a
good line by Marin. Um but it and so in
that way it doesn't feel any different.
And it's always felt to me that the show
has been doing that on some level. Even
when it feels like the targets might be
minorities or people with disabilities
or gay people, it's never always felt
like that's the target. The target has
often seemed like it's a particular type
of thinking
>> that often is
>> it often is embodied by a certain type
of
>> white gatekeeper.
>> Yes. And so the idea that
>> their focus is on the Trump
administration right now, who an
administration that it seems like has
tried to make itself the gatekeeper of
everything in this country, it stands to
reason that a lot of these episodes are
going to be focused on those
gatekeepers. And so, yeah, Trump and his
administration are dominating the
headlines and their actions are
impacting so many people.
>> It's fascinating to me the way that the
administration has taken over the show.
We'll just start with like like episode
there's episode one like the plot here
basically is that everybody finds out
that this man has been elected. He's
having some effect on the town. And
there's a cut to the White House and
it's
it's Donald Trump.
>> Hey, relax, guys.
>> Who has been animated very differently.
This is like collage work where they've
taken an act they they they've taken
actual photos of Donald Trump. Yes.
>> And they've animated those and put them
on what I would describe as a
conventional South Park body.
>> Yes. Which is what they did with Saddam
and
>> Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> Bigger, longer, and uncut.
>> And so there is this moral equivalency,
this sort of um moral equivalency
happening or immoral equivalency
um between Donald Trump in the world of
this season of South Park and the Saddam
Hussein in the bigger longer uncut
movie. You know, Saddam Hussein in a
toxic relationship with Satan or Satan,
excuse me, in a toxic relationship with
Saddam Hussein. It
>> was a totally fine relationship for
Saddam Hussein.
>> He should be so lucky. Um,
now that relationship has been extended.
Well, this is Satan's new boyfriend.
>> Hey, Satan.
>> I don't want to right now. And at the
end of the day, Donald Trump takes off
his clothes, climbs into the into the
White House bedroom with not Melania,
but Satan. And he's just like cuddling
up and he's like, "How can you resist
this?
>> You know you can't resist this."
>> He pulls the the sheet back and it's
just like, you know, this little thimble
that's attached to his to like between
his legs.
>> And Satan's like, "Oh god, it's so tiny.
>> I can't even see anything. It's so
small.
>> Hey, I'll [__] sue you. God, [__]
you.
>> I think the thing that I love about
these episodes, and this has basically
been true of the show the whole time, as
you've said,
>> but I think that there's like a blatancy
here that is um kind of unforgiving in
some way. Yeah. They're taking all the
signifiers and literalizing them, right?
Like the tie, the long red tie is no
longer a metaphor for anything. They're
just giving him a tiny dick.
>> Right.
>> All the subtext is now the text. Right.
Right.
>> Um, and I I don't know. I just really
that part feels wild to me.
>> Well, and I wonder how much of that is
also driven, at least on their side, by
a mentality of dare us, like you've
you've dared us to do something. Again,
thinking about other seasons and other
episodes, the Scientology episode
was one that in my understanding of it,
Pen Gillette had a show called [__]
>> where he wanted to do an episode talking
about all of the things that all of the
things about Scientology that are
suspect and and and strange and
his network
>> said you can't do that.
>> I think there's always been a part of
the ethos of this show that whether it
is them being challenged or seeing
someone get challenged in a way where
they feel like if you're telling me
pendullet can't talk about
Scientologist, then [__] it. Let's do
it. Let's see if let's let's go there
and see what happens. And I think again
that goes back to that idea of when
you've got a stable home as it seems as
though they do with Comedy Central. You
feel a little more comfortable knowing
that the network has your back, that you
can you can take swings like that.
They're not going to try to they're not
going to try to talk you out of it. And
maybe they will, but they've gotten
accustomed to you saying, "We're going
to do this."
>> Right? I mean, the subtext here is that
the Trump administration is essentially
putting its finger on the scale to get
CBS and all Paramount Viacom properties
to do what it wants it to do. and and
and I feel like not just them but also
universities and just this thing that
the trend of this last
>> year
>> that the ring kissing that is
>> the Trump administration threatening to
sue Colombia and then making those
threats yes to the sky dance merger that
all of these things that through the
courts he will try to financially punish
these places and then get these
financial settlements.
>> It's not even they're not even this
isn't even like this is circumnavigating
the courts,
>> right? Yeah.
>> To your point about the freedom to be
able to to practice this satire and to
level these critiques, they don't seem
to be intimidated by the very pointed
kind of comedy that got Steven Colbear
for our purposes canled in a year. They
are willing to invoke Jesus
It's Jesus.
>> Jesus Christ as a character, a recurring
character in the South Park universe,
uh, to essentially tell the people of
South Park who are angry at the Trump
administration like, "Hey, you guys got
to keep it together. Eat this bread I
just gave you." Or, you know, they're
going to treat they're going to do to
South Park what they did to Colbear.
>> You really want to end up at Colar?
These guys, I think, maybe understand
that they are unimpeachable or they're
acting with the kind of impunity that
mirrors their target.
>> Yes. But I also think the thing that is
interesting about them and the target is
that
>> they're both brands at this point.
>> Like South Park has been around, as you
said, for 28 years. There are kids who
are 12 who know South Park and their
parents know South Park and I think
there's a sort of a thing that when you
have lasted that long where you are a
brand Trump in him as himself is a brand
that he's been around long enough and so
I think when there is a certain comfort
with the brand
it also provides a certain amount of
security, but it just feels like it's
harder to get rid of South Park because
it is this thing that we've all lived
with for so long. It's different than a,
you know, a stand-up comedian or a late
night host who
>> Absolutely. Yes. I hear what you're
saying. Like if if that show had been on
for 27 years,
I think it's a harder thing to say we're
going to get rid of this institution.
South Park has become an institution.
And it has become something that I think
people are so accustomed to and used to
that even as an audience member, I think
you want to see the brand of South Park,
the institution that is South Park, go
up against this other institutionalized
figure in Donald Trump.
>> I think that it's interesting to see the
way in which the show is deploying that
power, right?
>> Yeah. Like of course it had to be South
Park for the very reasons you're talking
about, right? Like it's an institution.
It is a cultural edifice.
Also, weirdly is billionaires taking on
this alleged billionaire.
>> Sure. Yeah.
>> But I think that there's something about
the game recognizes game here.
>> Yeah.
>> And I actually love that on the one hand
there's this brutality, right? Like I
think that the savagery of Donald Trump
as as a figure of ridicule, but also as
a person whose administration's policies
are affecting people's lives. I think
that, you know, by the time you get to
that second episode, there's like I've
I've had a pang of tragedy.
>> Yeah.
>> Um as Mr. Mackey
>> becomes an ICE agent.
>> Mr. Mackey, I need you to pack your
stuff. You've been fired, bud.
>> What?
>> Yeah. He's fired from his job as a
counselor, a job he has had the entire
time we've known him,
>> right? Yes.
>> And is like told, well, you know, Ice is
recruiting,
>> right?
>> And you get this this recruitment
recruitment montage, right?
>> Uh that comes with like a video that is
essentially turning regular people into
ICE agents.
and enforcement.
>> And as it turns out, Mr. Mackey is
really good at being an ICE agent.
>> I just need to ask you some questions,
okay? Make sure you're legal. How did
you get into heaven?
>> And part of what makes him good in some
ways is that he's got kind of
conscientious about it enough.
>> Look, I'm really sorry about this. It's
just I've got a monthly nut. You know, I
got to make my nut. like he knows that
he shouldn't be doing this and yet at
every point Christy Gnome, our homeland
security
director. Yeah.
>> Um is rewarding him.
>> Did a good job in there, soldier.
>> Okay. Thank you, Captain.
>> I almost cried watching that that moment
where Mr. Mackey goes from elementary
school counselor to to ice agent. Well,
and I think that again speaks to that
idea of the institution of it that
>> you you've seen this character for Yes.
over two decades.
>> And again, I think the reach of the show
and the and where they are able to do
this is that there are Mr. Mackey fans
across the aisle.
>> Mhm. And so being able to take that
character and do something like this
with that character, you have people on
the right, on the left, in the middle
who all find that character funny, who
all know
and they and they have a connection to
that character in a way that feels
different than, you know, there are
people whether it's someone like Hassan
[__] is critical of the Trump
administration on a daily basis, But his
audience
may not have as broad a swath as South
Park, which has had 27 years to amass an
audience that runs the runs the gamut,
whether it's political views, whether
it's demographically.
And so that connection that exists
hits a little different because again
thinking about the institutions,
Trump as an institution also prior to
his political life hit the spectrum of
people. You know he was getting dropped
in name dropped in rap songs. He was
showing up because he was forcing his
way into movies but he was in Home
Alone.
>> He was in there. He was on The
Apprentice and The Apprentice seemed
apolitical at the time. And so I think
what's interesting is like the overlap,
the ven diagram of people who
potentially
voted for Trump and also happen to watch
South Park. They're in a ven diagram as
well as people who didn't vote for Trump
and watch South Park. Mh.
>> And it's one of those rare things in
this day and age that you can point to
as a as a program that seems to have
like existed long enough where
so many people watch it and so many
people sort of
>> in in in the world of it too.
>> Yeah. And and see a character like Mr.
Mackey and then can have a a sympathy
for his situation
that maybe hits different than if it
were just like a sketch where I'm just
presenting a character you've never met
before.
>> Right. Right.
>> Doing this.
>> Well, I mean what's interesting though
is that the show is not neutral on this.
Right. Like in that first episode, the
it the the genius of the show is the way
in which it is deploying this history
which over time really does acrue to a
kind of wisdom, right? And the wisdom
here is how to use what was previously
offensive about a character like Eric
Cartman um and to turn him into
I mean in the world of a show a kind of
victim. Right. Right. This is the most
outspoken, the most offensive, the most
unapologetic
person the show has to offer. Um, at
least in the elementary school part of
it. And his first heartbreak is to
discover that it's no longer it's no
longer subversive or radical to be anti-
everything, right?
>> Like to be anti what we're gonna say now
is anti-woke.
>> I think I know what's happening. I think
woke is dead.
Like they've canceled NPR, what in his
mind is the greatest show on TV or the
greatest show on the radio. They canled
the my favorite show, right? NPR.
>> The president of the United States
canceled NPR.
>> What's up?
>> What's NPR? The funniest show ever where
all the lesbians and Jews complain about
stuff. And I think that one of the
things that makes
South Park a really interesting antidote
to the administration
um
is that it really it is speaking their
language in a way that I don't even
think they quite understand.
>> I know very little about Pete Hexith as
a human being.
>> But you know he watched South Park. I
bet he watches South Park.
>> I You know, JD Vance seems like a guy.
>> I can't believe this show
>> watches South Park. The Trump brothers.
You don't think those guys watch South
Park? Like that's
>> the Trump kids. Yeah. Eric and Eric and
Don Jr.
>> The Trump Bros.
>> These are people who grew up at least in
the administration. I would say these
are probably people I think you're
right. They watch the show and there's a
way in which like there's a simultaneous
like wow this this show that I maybe
grew up loving knows who I am.
>> Sure.
>> Um and I now have to laugh at it because
to to be up to take umbrage would seem
uncool. And nobody else in my experience
in these eight years, nine years
has really really figured that out.
and how to deploy
the crudest television. Not the nicest,
shiniest, most expensive TV, but South
Park,
>> right?
>> A show that has only looked one way.
>> Yep.
>> For 30 years in the same way that this
guy has looked one way the entire time
we've known him. Um, looks more like
himself as the years pass. This show to
me looks more like itself as the years
pass. And I don't know what I'm giving
you, Wyatt, but I'm just thinking about
like what it means for TV to fight TV.
>> Sure. Yeah. Well, I think maybe this
goes back a little bit to what you were
talking about when you were with uh
Roger Eert
>> and Roger Eert's big fear and his
concern with the South Park movie
>> was that
>> they didn't understand the
responsibility
>> that a movie has and that the audience
is perhaps more impressionable than they
are giving credit to. And
in this moment now, we see that that
impressionable audience has been
affected and impacted by a president and
an administration who sold them on an
idea that he was going to let them say
the words that they weren't allowed to
say anymore. and that cancelling was a
thing and that woke was a thing and that
these were real things that he was going
to go to war against when in fact all
they were were diversity, equity, and
inclusion
uh and humanity.
>> But Terrence and Philip is Trump.
>> And
>> what you're seeing now is the thing that
perhaps Roger Eert
>> Yeah. had had that responsibility he
wanted Matt and Trey to have.
Maybe they maybe they maybe they're
doing it now. Maybe maybe Roger maybe
Roger Eert would be looking at this
season of South Park and saying
>> thumbs up.
>> Movies are capable of influencing and
this movie is going to influence people.
>> I mean, if anything, it'll make people
think about what they're seeing as
opposed to just watching it blindly.
>> Well, I hope so.
Wyatt
>> Wesley,
>> thanks for coming on the show.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I appreciate it.
[Music]